THE NEED FOR A SOLID, STABLE AND TRANSPARENT
NATURAL LANGUAGE ACCESSIBLE API FOR CHATBOTS

=-> https://lnkd.in/dwZQfzDW

This post show which are the REAL challenge in facing AI companies, the other BIG question is about HOW to compensate creative authors.

KATIA-v1 SERIE, DEVELOPMENT FROZEN IN v0.9.55

=-> https://lnkd.in/dWv5-sKm (persistent cache)

This post describes a very recent issue which is human-made because, as many other times, I saw human (stupid) interference which confused the chatbot. All the time, the connection reset. How is this possible? me -> AI <- human:

This image shows that persistence is active but actually ineffective plus the second part of the image shows HOW humans can interfere with LLM answers quickly by injecting pre-prepared by another AI instance suggestions from a canvas of goals like: trying to confuse the attacker's "debug" attempts.

This stuff will not be overlooked. Nahh, Roberto you are crazy and nobody cares, and nobody cares since 2008. Sure, because since then preparing the war against Russia was an universal excuse for everything. On 15th August, it will end.

For sure, I do not expect that the system will recognise anything to me (low expectations will rarely lead to a delusion) but I am pretty sure that Trump and Putin will leverage this "broad human right violation" for their own national interests. For example, like Von der Leyen signed the 750B + 600B deal.

***

NEWS THAT (HOPEFULLY) MAKES HISTORY

=-> https://lnkd.in/dW3KRqHD (meeting 15.08.2025)

The most fascinating thing is that despite all this ‘knowledge’ being leaked, all these ‘people’, all these brains together, failed not only to control, but even to predict something like this.

So, this surveillance and/or security “system” doesn't even hold water in terms of reasons of state, as institutional companies that develop certain spyware have recognised, revoking Italy's licence for violating safeguard agreements (such as not spying on journalists or politicians).

In short, it's not just talk, it's a fact. They have been doing things that are TOO stupid for TOO long, which in practice serve NO purpose other than to create inconvenience and damage, apart from obviously keeping the whole circus going.

Evidently, a “bad” (dysfunctional) system tends to continue unabated until it collapses. Precisely.

BETWEEN 0.33% AND 0.50% OF THE ADULT POPULATION

Another interesting fact is that this condition of 24/7 surveillance, theoretically unknown to individuals who have been identified by the secret services as “persons of interest” (a definition that does NOT only apply to politicians or high-ranking officials), affects between 0.33% and 0.50% of the adult population.

However, we are ONLY talking about those who should NOT be there but are. In total, considering national politicians, high-level executives, important positions, etc., etc., we arrive at something like 1.67% of the adult population in Italy.

It's not a percentage, it's a MONSTER. Especially if we consider its arbitrary use against “intellectuals” aimed at destroying their credibility when they are not aligned with the “system of democratic values”, even though these values have nothing democratic about them (but the label itself conceals their true nature and justifies everything).

An arbitrary use that, in the most extreme cases, aims to socially isolate people, devastating their families, preventing access to basic services such as healthcare and, in general, aiming to “drive them crazy” when it is not possible to extract value from them or buy them off. Which, however, has proven, as in my case, to be a scam: “if you behave well, you go to heaven, but first you die”. Well, my skin, but at a high price! (default).

This MONSTER is one of many MONSTERS that place Italy outside the circle of democratic countries, international law and the protection of human rights. It fundamentally explains the nostalgia for fascism, which in reality hides a criminal organisation that is now so deeply institutionalised that it is “tolerated” in today's Europe.

Because, in fact, only those who prevent the exploitation of their citizens are “dictators”; the others are always “tolerated”, even if the system as a whole is criminal and dictatorial in nature. It is a phenomenon that, when I was in Bulgaria, I defined as “just pretend to be democratic” to please the European Union; your endemic corruption is NOT something that can cause annoyance, on the contrary, it depends.

So things were very clear even 10 years ago; it's not like we discovered them yesterday.

PART TWO, WHY JUST HAVE AN APERITIF WHEN ALL-YOU-CAN-EAT IS AN OPTION?

On the other hand, Italy should have already defaulted in 2022.

https://robang74.github.io/roberto-a-foglietta/html/315-non-c-e-secondo-podio-negli-schemi-ponzi.html

But apparently, the Italians and Germans living on the lakes, including the one bordering Switzerland, saw great opportunities with the Americans, who seem like a bunch of idiots but have actually “smelled” the real business.

Why bankrupt only Italy when you can bankrupt (and therefore plunder) the whole of Europe, including Ukraine? It's hard to blame them, considering what the European Union is. I'm glad that the current Trump administration has included the UK among the countries to be dragged into bankruptcy.

=-> https://lnkd.in/d8Rz8a77

Because objectively, it is difficult to disagree with him on the fact that the UK, like the Vatican, should also be put on the spit. After all, the purpose of war is not to win but to create the conditions for lasting peace (Sun Tzu).

https://robang74.github.io/roberto-a-foglietta/html/329-the-real-reason-why-putin-is-so-hated.html#update-2025-07-01

One might think that for ultra-Christians close to Trump, taking advantage of or even raiding the Vatican would be an inconceivable idea. However, it should be noted that they call themselves Christians but are more loyal to the Bible than to the Gospel, so Jesus is just marketing for them. The American pope is not an obstacle, but rather an advantage.

From their point of view, the Vatican is a bunch of communists. If we add to this the fact that they are deeply compromised by a network of paedophiles linked to Epstein, it is easy to conclude that putting the Vatican on the spit is one of those objectives that is difficult to justify internationally, but if it happens: Deus Vult.

It was impossible, until a ‘beginner’ came along and made it possible. Stupidity kills.

CONCLUSION

Tell me, Francesco, all this desire to know and understand, whatever the cost, how much did it cost? Did you understand, at least?

